X‑Ray combines all the data sent to it into a structure it calls a trace.
A trace is a collection of different segments that occur from a single request.
When a request comes into your application,
the first X‑Ray‑enabled service will generate a trace ID that will
follow the request through our system and be used to report
segment data back to the X‑Ray service.
A segment in X‑Ray is a single packet of data sent to X‑Ray
by your application or resource and contains some data points
about any work that was done, how long it took,
if there were errors, etc.
All of the useful information in X‑Ray is derived from these segments.
In addition to segments, there are also subsegments,
which often give more granular detail about actions that occurred.
For instance,
an API Gateway endpoint that was hit might include a
lambda invocation as a subsegment.
In the same trace,
a segment for the lambda that was invoked might show a subsegment
for a Kinesis putRecord function that it called.
Using these segments and subsegments can be helpful for you to
understand how your application is functioning.
As these segments come in,
X‑Ray draws a service map that shows which segments connected to other segments.
Sometimes, this isn't linear,
and it's instead much like a graph database structure where
segments connect to each other at different points.
Looking at the individual traces in the dashboard will show you a more
linear timeline of what happened when and gives you a clearer picture of
a request lifecycle in your application.
While most database services will provide preconfigured segment data to X‑Ray,
you can also produce your own segment and subsegments if
running code in lambda or on EC2 or ECS.
For example,
if you had a complicated sequence of code and wanted to use X‑Ray
to monitor where it might be getting stuck,
you could use the X‑Ray SDK to manually create segments and
subsegments and send them on to X‑Ray.
This could have the result of making X‑Ray even more useful as the service
map information can sometimes seem a little generic.
You can add annotations and metadata to your segments that would be
application‑specific data that could help if troubleshooting an issue.
Now enough talking about X‑Ray. Let's configure it and see it in action in the next video.